SoX: Sound eXchange Installation

This distribution will compile and run on most UNIX systems.
It was originally developed on a UNIX/386 machine running AT&T V.3.2
but its currently developed under Linux.  With little work it should
work with most SVR4 systems, BSD-derived UNIX's and DOS/Windows systems 
that use the GNU tool set.

Compiling
---------

The preferred method for compiling SoX is to use the "configure" scripts
compatible with most UNIX systems that contain "/bin/sh" or equivalent
(even the Win95/NT Cygwin setup will work with this).

To compile SoX on these platforms run the following commands:

    ./configure
    make
    make install

You should then have a working version of SoX in the directory.  There
are several optional parameters that you may pass to the configure
script to customize SoX for your applications.  Run "./configure --help"
for a complete list of options.

If your system works with the "configure" script then you may skip
to the Optional Compiling section.

If your system does not work with the configure scripts then there are
several canned "Makefile"'s that you can use.  The following systems
have a canned Makefile:

    DOS        Makefile.dos (Borland or Turbo C)
    WIN95/NT   Makefile.dos (Needs modifying for Visual C++)
    OS/2       Makefile.gcc (using EMX GCC compiler)

To use a canned Makefile, a few steps need to be completed.  First up,
you need to make a copy of stconfig.h.in and call it stconfig.h.  Modify
this file to reflect your environment.  

After that, copy either Makefile.dos or Makefile.gcc to a file
called Makefile.  This needs to be done in both the main SoX directory 
and the ./gsm directory.  This file also needs to be modified to reflect
your environment.

Optional Compile Features
-------------------------

A GSM library is included with SoX.  More information on this library
can be obtained from http://www.cs.tu-berlin.de/~jutta/toast.html.
If this library fails to compile on your system, you can specify
--disable-gsm to prevent it from being compiled in.

SoX can make use of Ogg Vorbis libraries to play and record Ogg
Vorbis files.  If this library is installed in a non-standard location
in your system then you can use --with-ogg-vorbislib=path and
--with-ogg-vorbisinc=path to allow configure to find this library.

If you're not processing lots of u-law or A-law files and would
like to save around 64K of memory when SoX is executed then you
can use runtime routines to perform u-law/A-law conversions.
This is slower then the default lookup tables but results in the
same answers.  To save this memory, specify --disable-fast-ulaw and
--disable-fast-alaw.

Testing
-------

After successfully compiling SoX, try translating a sound file.
If you can play one of the supported sound file formats,
translate 'monkey.voc' to your format (we'll use 'xxx'):

	sox monkey.voc monkey.xxx

You may have to give the word size and rate for the file.
For example, this command will make a sound file with a data rate of
12,500 samples per second and the data formatted as signed shorts:

	sox monkey.voc -r 12500 -s -w monkey.xxx 

If monkey.xxx plays properly (it's a very short monkey screech),
congratulations!  SoX works.

After that, running "tests.sh" and "testall.sh" ("tests.bat" and 
"testall.bat" for DOS) tests most of the  implemented file handlers to
make sure that some portability issue haven't popped up.
